---
layout: single
permalink: "/join/"
classes: wide
author_profile: true
toc: true
---
# Mentoring philosophy
My laboratory has studied mechanics in regulating health and pathology of cartilaginous tissues for over 25 years.  We advance development of biomaterials for cell and drug delivery, advance studies of cellular mechano-biology, perform tissue mechanical testing, develop pre-clinical models of musculoskeletal pathology, and use mathematical models to advance an understanding of degeneration and regeneration of intervertebral disc, cartilage and synovium.  In pursuit of this research, I have worked to develop individuals into independent scientific investigators and champions of science.  Each person I mentor is different, and different goals require different skills, but I aspire to help each develop a set of universal skills — being curious about one’s own and others’ research, identifying good research projects and questions, managing projects and learning the scientific method, acknowledging shortcomings, and communicating effectively. Over this period, I have mentored 45 individuals in independent pre-doctoral and post-doctoral research experiences, with a majority moving on to careers in academic, government or private sector research and science. **You can read more about Dr. Setton's mentoring philosophy [here.](https://wustl.box.com/s/mvk5oby0ywecqmrei1hn7wt96smdm56a)**
# Open positions
## Postdoctoral associate position in musculoskeletal tissue regeneration
A postdoctoral position is available immediately for applicants interested in cell-mediated repair, drug delivery, or nerve-tissue cross-talk in application to arthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration.  The individual will have the opportunity to design their own project and work as part of a multidisciplinary team of engineers, biologists, materials scientists and clinicians.<br><br>
<b>Requirements:</b> Qualifications include PhD in biology, biomedical engineering or other relevant areas of biomedical sciences. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and possess training in areas of cell biology, cell culture, materials science or drug delivery, musculoskeletal pathology, or immunology.  Candidates should also have a demonstrated record of achievement, as well as excellent written and verbal communication skills to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.
## Laboratory research technician I
The Setton Laboratory has an immediate need for an individual to work with a multidisciplinary orthopedic research group in the area of models of joint and spine disease.  The individual will be responsible for coordinating all aspects of disease model preparation from protocol development, execution, and data analysis including histological, cellular and biochemical assays.  A component of this position will contribute to routine laboratory maintenance, including maintaining supplies, schedules, general organization and supervision of students.  The successful candidate has the opportunity to pursue independent research projects in the laboratory and to assist in the preparation of manuscripts, grant proposals and presentations, as well as to help with the training and supervision of undergraduate engineering students in independent research projects.<br><br>
**Requirements:** Qualifications include BA or BS in biology, biomedical engineering or other relevant areas of biomedical sciences. Prior experience with cellular assays or animal models is desirable. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and curious about advancing studies of musculoskeletal pathology. Candidates should also have strong written and verbal communication skills and a demonstrated ability to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.
